- [Instructor] When your application begins to shut down,
hopefully on purpose, you enter the destruction phase
of the life cycle.
Now, the destruction phase is really critical
because this is when Spring itself goes out of context.
And it begins when close is called
on the ApplicationContext.
So there is a method called close that you can call.
Now, if you just shut your application down,
close will be called as well in a roundabout way.
Any @PreDestroy method is called when close is called
on the ApplicationContext.
And again, this is that life cycle method
that gave you the last chance to do work
before Spring itself goes out of scope.
It's important to note that beans are not destroyed.
This is Java.
You can't destroy the beans anywhere.
Only the garbage collector can do that.
So beans are not destroyed.
They're not de-referenced until close occurs.
Then they are de-referenced and marked as available
for garbage collection.
Now, there's some caveats when dealing
with the destruction phase.
First and foremost, the context cannot be reused again.
You cannot call close and then immediately get
the context back.
Close is final, it's done.
End of story.
And that's the important thing to remember
when calling close is it's a one-way door.
You're not coming back from that.
Prototype beans were released once they were instantiated
and handed to the application.
So they have already been garbage collected
or at least been marked available for garbage collection
at the point in time when close is called
on the ApplicationContext.
And again, only garbage collection can actually
destroy bean instances, you cannot.
So all of this is really designed to mark things
available for the garbage collector and that's it.
So @PreDestroy occurs on any methods marked as such
and then everything is marked as available
for garbage collection and Spring goes out of scope
and we're done with our application until we start
it up again.